### 13.1 文本语法

Three of the Thymeleaf template modes are considered `textual`: `TEXT`,`JAVASCRIPT` and `CSS`. This differentiates them from the markup template modes: `HTML` and `XML`.

The key difference between textual template modes and the markup ones is that in a textual template there are no tags into which to insert logic in the form of attributes, so we have to rely on other mechanisms.

The first and most basic of these mechanisms is `inlining`, which we have already detailed in the previous chapter. Inlining syntax is the most simple way to output results of expressions in textual template mode, so this is a perfectly valid template for a text email.
```
  Dear [(${name})],

  Please find attached the results of the report you requested
  with name "[(${report.name})]".

  Sincerely,
    The Reporter.
```
Even without tags, the example above is a complete and valid Thymeleaf template that can be executed in the `TEXT` template mode.

But in order to include more complex logic than mere output expressions, we need a new non-tag-based syntax:
```
[# th:each="item : ${items}"]
  - [(${item})]
[/]
```
Which is actually the condensed version of the more verbose:
```
[#th:block th:each="item : ${items}"]
  - [#th:block th:utext="${item}" /]
[/th:block]
```
Note how this new syntax is based on elements (i.e. processable tags) that are declared as `[#element ...]` instead of `<element ...>`. Elements are open like `[#element ...]` and closed like `[/element]`, and standalone tags can be declared by minimizing the open element with a `/` in a way almost equivalent to XML tags: `[#element ... /]`.

The Standard Dialect only contains a processor for one of these elements: the already-known `th:block`, though we could extend this in our dialects and create new elements in the usual way. Also, the `th:block` element (`[#th:block ...] ... [/th:block]`) is allowed to be abbreviated as the empty string (`[# ...] ... [/]`), so the above block is actually equivalent to:
```
[# th:each="item : ${items}"]
  - [# th:utext="${item}" /]
[/]
```
And given `[# th:utext="${item}" /]` is equivalent to an inlined unescaped expression, we could just use it in order to have less code. Thus we end up with the first fragment of code we saw above:
```
[# th:each="item : ${items}"]
  - [(${item})]
[/]
```
Note that the textual syntax requires full element balance (no unclosed tags) and quoted attributes – it’s more XML-style than HTML-style.

Let’s have a look at a more complete example of a TEXT template, a plain text email template:
```
Dear [(${customer.name})],

This is the list of our products:

[# th:each="prod : ${products}"]
   - [(${prod.name})]. Price: [(${prod.price})] EUR/kg
[/]

Thanks,
  The Thymeleaf Shop
```
After executing, the result of this could be something like:
```
Dear Mary Ann Blueberry,

This is the list of our products:

   - Apricots. Price: 1.12 EUR/kg
   - Bananas. Price: 1.78 EUR/kg
   - Apples. Price: 0.85 EUR/kg
   - Watermelon. Price: 1.91 EUR/kg

Thanks,
  The Thymeleaf Shop
```
And another example in `JAVASCRIPT` template mode, a `greeter.js` file, we process as a textual template and which result we call from our HTML pages. Note this is not a `<script>` block in an HTML template, but a `.js` file being processed as a template on its own:
```javascript
var greeter = function() {

    var username = [[${session.user.name}]];

    [# th:each="salut : ${salutations}"]    
      alert([[${salut}]] + " " + username);
    [/]

};
```
After executing, the result of this could be something like:
```javascript
var greeter = function() {

    var username = "Bertrand \"Crunchy\" Pear";

      alert("Hello" + " " + username);
      alert("Ol\u00E1" + " " + username);
      alert("Hola" + " " + username);

};
```