### 17.1 解耦的逻辑：概念

So far we have worked for our Grocery Store with templates done the usual way, with logic being inserted into our templates in the form of attributes.

But Thymeleaf also allows us to completely decouple the template markup from its logic, allowing the creation of `completely logic-less markup templates` in the `HTML` and `XML` template modes.

The main idea is that template logic will be defined in a separate logic file (more exactly a logic resource, as it doesn’t need to be a file). By default, that logic resource will be an additional file living in the same place ( e.g. folder) as the template file, with the same name but with `.th.xml` extension:
```
/templates
+->/home.html
+->/home.th.xml
```
So the `home.html` file can be completely logic-less. It might look like this:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <table id="usersTable">
      <tr>
        <td class="username">Jeremy Grapefruit</td>
        <td class="usertype">Normal User</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="username">Alice Watermelon</td>
        <td class="usertype">Administrator</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
  </body>
</html>
```
Absolutely no Thymeleaf code there. This is a template file that a designer with no Thymeleaf or templating knowledge could have created, edited and/or understood. Or a fragment of HTML provided by some external system with no Thymeleaf hooks at all.

Let’s now turn that `home.html` template into a Thymeleaf template by creating our additional `home.th.xml` file like this:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<thlogic>
  <attr sel="#usersTable" th:remove="all-but-first">
    <attr sel="/tr[0]" th:each="user : ${users}">
      <attr sel="td.username" th:text="${user.name}" />
      <attr sel="td.usertype" th:text="#{|user.type.${user.type}|}" />
    </attr>
  </attr>
</thlogic>
```
Here we can see a lot of `<attr>` tags inside a `thlogic` block. Those `<attr>` tags perform attribute injection on nodes of the original template selected by means of their `sel` attributes, which contain Thymeleaf markup selectors (actually AttoParser markup selectors).

Also note that `<attr>` tags can be nested so that their selectors are appended. That `sel="/tr[0]"` above, for example, will be processed as `sel="#usersTable/tr[0]"`. And the selector for the user name `<td>` will be processed as `sel="#usersTable/tr[0]//td.username"`.

So once merged, both files seen above will be the same as:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
    <table id="usersTable" th:remove="all-but-first">
      <tr th:each="user : ${users}">
        <td class="username" th:text="${user.name}">Jeremy Grapefruit</td>
        <td class="usertype" th:text="#{|user.type.${user.type}|}">Normal User</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="username">Alice Watermelon</td>
        <td class="usertype">Administrator</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
  </body>
</html>
```
This looks more familiar, and is indeed less verbose than creating two separate files. But the advantage of decoupled templates is that we can give for our templates total independence from Thymeleaf, and therefore better maintainability from the design standpoint.

Of course some contracts between designers or developers will still be needed – e.g. the fact that the users `<table>` will need an `id="usersTable"` –, but in many scenarios a pure-HTML template will be a much better communication artifact between design and development teams.
