### 3.1 多种语言显示欢迎

Our first task will be to create a home page for our grocery site.

The first version of this page will be extremely simple: just a title and a welcome message. This is our /WEB-INF/templates/home.html file:

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">

  <head>
    <title>Good Thymes Virtual Grocery</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="all" 
          href="../../css/gtvg.css" th:href="@{/css/gtvg.css}" />
  </head>

  <body>
  
    <p th:text="#{home.welcome}">Welcome to our grocery store!</p>
  
  </body>

</html>
The first thing you will notice is that this file is HTML5 that can be correctly displayed by any browser because it does not include any non-HTML tags (browsers ignore all attributes they don’t understand, like th:text).

But you may also notice that this template is not really a valid HTML5 document, because these non-standard attributes we are using in the th:* form are not allowed by the HTML5 specification. In fact, we are even adding an xmlns:th attribute to our <html> tag, something absolutely non-HTML5-ish:

<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">
…which has no influence at all in template processing, but works as an incantation that prevents our IDE from complaining about the lack of a namespace definition for all those th:* attributes.

So what if we wanted to make this template HTML5-valid? Easy: switch to Thymeleaf’s data attribute syntax, using the data- prefix for attribute names and hyphen (-) separators instead of semi-colons (:):

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>

  <head>
    <title>Good Thymes Virtual Grocery</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="all" 
          href="../../css/gtvg.css" data-th-href="@{/css/gtvg.css}" />
  </head>

  <body>
  
    <p data-th-text="#{home.welcome}">Welcome to our grocery store!</p>
  
  </body>

</html>
Custom data- prefixed attributes are allowed by the HTML5 specification, so, with this code above, our template would be a valid HTML5 document.

Both notations are completely equivalent and interchangeable, but for the sake of simplicity and compactness of the code samples, this tutorial will use the namespace notation (th:*). Also, the th:* notation is more general and allowed in every Thymeleaf template mode (XML, TEXT…) whereas the data- notation is only allowed in HTML mode.