### 4.4 链接URL

Because of their importance, URLs are first-class citizens in web application templates, and the Thymeleaf Standard Dialect has a special syntax for them, the `@` syntax: `@{...}`

There are different types of URLs:

- Absolute URLs: `http://www.thymeleaf.org`
- Relative URLs, which can be:
  - Page-relative: `user/login.html`
  - Context-relative: `/itemdetails?id=3` (context name in server will be added automatically)
  - Server-relative: `~/billing/processInvoice` (allows calling URLs in another context (= application) in the same server.
  - Protocol-relative URLs: `//code.jquery.com/jquery-2.0.3.min.js`
The real processing of these expressions and their conversion to the URLs that will be output is done by implementations of the `org.thymeleaf.linkbuilder.ILinkBuilder` interface that are registered into the `ITemplateEngine` object being used.

By default, a single implementation of this interface is registered of the class `org.thymeleaf.linkbuilder.StandardLinkBuilder`, which is enough for both offline (non-web) and also web scenarios based on the Servlet API. Other scenarios (like integration with non-ServletAPI web frameworks) might need specific implementations of the link builder interface.

Let’s use this new syntax. Meet the `th:href` attribute:
```html
<!-- Will produce 'http://localhost:8080/gtvg/order/details?orderId=3' (plus rewriting) -->
<a href="details.html" 
   th:href="@{http://localhost:8080/gtvg/order/details(orderId=${o.id})}">view</a>

<!-- Will produce '/gtvg/order/details?orderId=3' (plus rewriting) -->
<a href="details.html" th:href="@{/order/details(orderId=${o.id})}">view</a>

<!-- Will produce '/gtvg/order/3/details' (plus rewriting) -->
<a href="details.html" th:href="@{/order/{orderId}/details(orderId=${o.id})}">view</a>
```
Some things to note here:

- `th:href` is a modifier attribute: once processed, it will compute the link URL to be used and set that value to the `href` attribute of the `<a>` tag.
- We are allowed to use expressions for URL parameters (as you can see in `orderId=${o.id}`). The required URL-parameter-encoding operations will also be automatically performed.
- If several parameters are needed, these will be separated by commas: `@{/order/process(execId=${execId},execType='FAST')}`
- Variable templates are also allowed in URL paths: @{/order/{orderId}/details(orderId=${orderId})}
- Relative URLs starting with `/` (eg: `/order/details`) will be automatically prefixed by the application context name.
- If cookies are not enabled or this is not yet known, a `";jsessionid=..."` suffix might be added to relative URLs so that the session is preserved. This is called URL Rewriting and Thymeleaf allows you to plug in your own rewriting filters by using the `response.encodeURL(...)` mechanism from the Servlet API for every URL.
- The `th:href` attribute allows us to (optionally) have a working static `href` attribute in our template, so that our template links remained navigable by a browser when opened directly for prototyping purposes.
As was the case with the message syntax (`#{...}`), URL bases can also be the result of evaluating another expression:
```html
<a th:href="@{${url}(orderId=${o.id})}">view</a>
<a th:href="@{'/details/'+${user.login}(orderId=${o.id})}">view</a>
```